# Data Science Projects

This repository contains my Data Analysis and Visualization project. Mostly here would be study projects, realized on statistic courses with using R and Python code. In the nearest future I'm going to publish my projects in Machine learning sphere realized on Python. 

## Contents
## __Python__
- ### Regression
	- [Finding the best place for a new OilyGiant well](https://github.com/snegnik/Data-Projects/blob/master/.ipynb): Within the framework of this project, it was necessary to find the most profitable regions in terms of profit for drilling oil wells. The data were given of oil production volumes by wells in three regions. Based on these data, I built a model - linear regression - and applied the bootstrap method to identify the most profitable region.
	
- ### Clustering (Supervised and Unsupervised Machine Learning)
	- [Bank Clients Behavior [unsupervised]](https://github.com/snegnik/Data-Projects/blob/master/Bank_Clients_Behavior/Bank%20Clients%20Behavior.ipynb): This study is aimed to learn how to accurately predict the behavior of the bank client, in particular, to predict whether the client will leave or not. For this, data is used on existing customers who have remained or gone. Those that have gone much less then stay, so the model may work worse. To improve the quality of the model, it is necessary to balance the number of those who left to the number of those who stay.
	- [Hackathon from X5 DataMonetize (18.06.20-21.06.20) [supervised]](https://github.com/snegnik/Data-Projects/blob/master/HackathonX5/HackathonX5_DataMonetize(18.06.20-21.06.20).ipynb): Based on the received data, our team developed a hypothesis that customers can be segmented by their food basket. The result should have looked like a plane with dots on it. Each point is a customer. And the distance between the points is the coefficient of coincidence of the basket of one user with another. To solve this problem, a customer-product matrix was built. Two methods for reducing the dimension of PSA and TSNE are applied to the matrix. The results did not confirm our hypothesis that buyers are segmented in this way. It is possible to obtain segments at certain slices. But the power of the computer does not allow for multiple experiments.
		
- ### Data Analysis and Visualization
	- [Research data on sales and ratings of games](https://github.com/snegnik/Data-Projects/blob/master/Game_sales/Game_sales(1980-2016).ipynb): This study focuses on the gaming industry. In particular, various factors affecting game sales are being studied. A large set of data is analyzed, including data on sales of games on three continents, from 1980 to 2016, released on various gaming platforms. Within the framework of the study, three major tasks were set: Compare platforms among each other; Compare genres; Explore regional specifics.
	- [Examination US telecom operator users in the context of tariff plans](https://github.com/snegnik/Data-Projects/blob/master/Telecom_operator_plans/Telecom_operator_plans.ipynb): This study aims to study the behavior of subscribers of a given telecom operator. Compare the behavior of subscribers connected to different plans. Explore if there are certain patterns? Track how the behavior changes from month to month. And most importantly, to find out which plan is most profitable for a mobile operator? Which tariff plan brings more profit and puts less load on the network.
	- [Survey of customers’ creditworthiness](https://github.com/snegnik/Data-Projects/blob/master/Creditworthiness/Analyzing%20borrowers%60%20risk%20of%20defaulting.ipynb): The main goal was to find out if different customer’s statuses has an impact on whether they will default on a loan. The database was provided for educational purposes by Yandex. Also it's an intellectual property of the company, so publication of dataset is forbidden.
	- [Research the factors of market value of real estate of SPb](https://github.com/snegnik/Data-Projects/blob/master/Factors_value_real%20estate/Research%20the%20factors%20of%20market%20value%20of%20real%20estate%20of%20SPb.ipynb): This project was based on the data of the ads for realty in St. Petersburg, Russia, and the surrounding areas. In this study, it was supposed to find significant correlations between the parameters of apartments and their selling price. No significant correlations were found, however, some patterns and dependencies between the parameters of the apartments were revealed.
		
__R__
- ### Data Analysis and Visualization
	- [Correlations of Saint-Petersburg Housing Prices](http://rpubs.com/snegnik/flat_price_spb): Here I try to find some patterns and relations between house properties and prices for flats on market real estate in Saint-Petersburg. I have used parameters like a count of rooms, height of the house, materials a eds. For investigation I used R and basic statistical methods. Database was built by me based on information on the search platform nmarket.pro [_(Files)_](https://github.com/snegnik/Data-projects/tree/master/Real%20Estate%20Price%20Analysis%20(NMarket%20Data))
	- [Cookbook. DATA ANALYSIS: STATISTICAL PROBLEMS AND SOLUTIONS IN R](https://rpubs.com/snegnik/Cookbook): This my R workbook with useful functions and statistical theory.
		
#### Also you can look the R portfolio [here](http://rpubs.com/snegnik/).

_Note: here information updating in progress and page still on redaction._
